# Project Idea

Thinking about what to do for a personal project has been on my mind
since I published my mobile games. Those projects were my gateway into
the coding world and really fed my passion leading to my eventual career
change. The freedom and ability to create anything you want on your
personal projects is something I absolutely love and it makes a really
rewarding hobby. Since quitting my PhD I've been aiming to become a
mainstream developer and have spent most of my time reading and
studying. This has included:

* Udacity's Machine Learning Course
* Cracking the Coding Interview
* Linux Command Lines
* Test Driven Web Development with Python
* Test Driven Development Django Development * Fluent Python

Now that I feel I'm competent enough to build a Django Application as
well as perform TDD for my job, I believe it's time to build something
new, that pushes my knowledge and solidifies what I've learnt from
my new found knowledge. This project will have to have several key
components.

1. **Python** - With modules spanning data science to web development
   it's a no brainer that my next project will utilize Python.
   Furthermore, it's simple syntax and my familiarity with it is
   something that will decrease the cognitive overhead allowing me to
   just worry about the project.

2. **Machine Learning** - Since taking Udacity's Machine Learning course
   I've been really interested in utilizing this as a tool to create a
   new application. This works nicely with Python which provides Pandas,
   Jupyter and SciKit Learn for data analysis.

3. **Django** - Powerful for web server applications I really think that
   building a full Django project from scratch will help build my
   experience as a developer. Finally, I'd like to have my app be
   deployed onto Android, pushing me to learn  how to integrate the
   Django Rest Framework's API calls with my Android application.

## Ideas

Over the past several months I have been thinking of different ideas
which can be feasible for this project. This includes the following:

* **Flight prices including price of transportation to and from the
  airport:** This is a cool idea I thought of while travelling. A few
  times I've caught myself travelling to farther airports, spending
  extra money on the commute to and from the airport. This application
  would search for the flight cost plus the commute cost.

* **Short story writer:** This would be a really cool project going into
  natrual language processing. You would input an idea and the project
  would spit out a short story based on what you put in.

* **Photobomb destroyer:** There was a really cool paper that came out
  recently which involved the resizing of images based on the entropy
  of pixels in the immage. By highlighting certain regions you could
  completely edit out a photobomber. In addition this would utilize
  face detection and machine learning to decide which face is the
  likely photobomber.

* **Makeup tester:** Great project for face detection and overlaying
  features on the person's face. Could be used for advertising different
  makeup brands?

* **Carpool Service:** There hasn't been a disruptive technology that
  has taken over craigslist and kijiji for ridesharing around Toronto.
  This would be the "Uber for long distance rides."

* **Twitter and Reddit Feed Summarizer:** Writes short stories based on
  trending twitter feeds and reddit posts. Story formats are trained
  based on previous stories of similar subjects.

## Ranking Ideas

To try to sort through the ideas I'll simply rank each one on what I am
seeking to learn from the project (as seen above) as well as some other
core, incredibly scientific, components.

| Application         | Django | Machine Learning | Novelty | Application | Total |
| ------------------- | ------ | ---------------- | ------- | ----------- | ----- |
| Easy Flight         |   1    |         0        |    1    |      1      |   3   |
| Story Writer        |   1    |         1        |    1    |      0      |   3   |
| Photobomb Destroyer |   1    |         1        |    1    |      0      |   3   |
| Makeup Tester       |   0    |         1        |    0    |      0      |   1   |
| Carpool Service     |   1    |         0        |    0    |      1      |   2   |
| Feed Summarizer     |   1    |         1        |    1    |      1      |   4   |

From this ranking there seems to be a lot of ideas that are close.
Makeup tester is a clear loss. It was an idea as it would've been an
excellent way to learn face tracking, however, it would not integrate
Django and would likely be a mobile application. In addition in looking
for any replicas it seems to have been already created. Though the
carpool service is something that I leaves a lot to be desired in the
Toronto area, it does not touch on any machine learning which is one
of the main foci of this project. This is the same case for easy flight.
Story writer and photobomb destroyer are great ideas which cover my
goals of incorporating django, machine learning and python, however,
these really don't seem to make any serious impact on any markets.
Finally feed summarizer, which is a really big project, knocks it out
of the park (with my totally subjective marking) and takes the win.

## Closing Thoughts

In writing this I feel I have given each idea a fair shot and gave each
considerable consideration. Now having my thoughts organized I will have
more confidence in following through with my new project. Time to start
researching feed summarizers and start building a very specific project
plan!
